.\" This file is part of the Ssstr string library.
.\" Copyright 2022-2023 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.TH SS8_EQUALS 3  2022-11-06 SSSTR "Ssstr Manual"
.SH NAME
ss8_equals, ss8_equals_cstr, ss8_equals_bytes, ss8_equals_ch \- determine if an
ssstr byte string is equal to a string or character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ss8str.h>
.PP
.BI "bool ss8_equals(ss8str const *" lhs ", ss8str const *" rhs ");"
.BI "bool ss8_equals_cstr(ss8str const *" lhs ", char const *" rhs ");"
.BI "bool ss8_equals_bytes(ss8str const *" lhs ", char const *" rhs ","
.BI "                      size_t " rhslen ");"
.BI "bool ss8_equals_ch(ss8str const *" lhs ", char " rhs ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ss8_equals ()
tests whether the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
is equal to the
.B ss8str
at
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
and
.I rhs
both point to valid
.B ss8str
objects.
.PP
.BR ss8_equals_cstr ()
tests whether the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
is equal to the null-terminated byte string
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object and
.I rhs
is a null-terminated byte string.
.PP
.BR ss8_equals_bytes ()
tests whether the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
is equal to the byte string with length
.I rhslen
located at
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object and
.I rhs
is not NULL and points to an array of at least
.I rhslen
bytes.
.PP
.BR ss8_equals_ch ()
tests whether the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
is equal to the byte string consisting of the single byte
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object.
.PP
Two byte strings are considered equal when they have the same length and are
byte-wise equal.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All 4 functions return
.B true
if
.I lhs
is equal to
.IR rhs ;
otherwise they return
.BR false .
.SH NOTES
The equality comparison performed by these functions does not take into account
the possibility of different byte sequences representing the same character.
If the strings are UTF-8-encoded, canonically-equivalent strings may not be
considered equal by these functions unless the strings are normalized ahead of
time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ss8_cmp (3),
.BR ss8_contains (3),
.BR ss8_ends_with (3),
.BR ss8_starts_with (3),
.BR ssstr (7)
