.\" This file is part of the Ssstr string library.
.\" Copyright 2022-2023 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.TH SS8_CMP 3  2023-12-30 SSSTR "Ssstr Manual"
.SH NAME
ss8_cmp, ss8_cmp_cstr, ss8_cmp_bytes, ss8_cmp_ch \- compare ssstr byte string
with string or character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ss8str.h>
.PP
.BI "int ss8_cmp(ss8str const *" lhs ", ss8str const *" rhs ");"
.BI "int ss8_cmp_cstr(ss8str const *" lhs ", char const *" rhs ");"
.BI "int ss8_cmp_bytes(ss8str const *" lhs ", char const *" rhs ","
.BI "                  size_t " rhslen ");"
.BI "int ss8_cmp_ch(ss8str const *" lhs ", char " rhs ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ss8_cmp ()
compares the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
with the
.B ss8str
at
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless both
.I lhs
and
.I rhs
point to valid
.B ss8str
objects.
.PP
.BR ss8_cmp_cstr ()
compares the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
with the null-terminated byte string
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object and
.I rhs
is a null-terminated byte string.
.PP
.BR ss8_cmp_bytes ()
compares the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
with the byte string of length
.I rhslen
located at
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object and
.I rhs
is not NULL and points to an array of at least
.I rhslen
bytes.
.PP
.BR ss8_cmp_ch ()
compares the
.B ss8str
at
.I lhs
with the byte string consisting of the single byte
.IR rhs .
Behavior is undefined unless
.I lhs
points to a valid
.B ss8str
object.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All 4 functions return a negative, zero, or positive value, respectively, if
.I lhs
is less than, equal to, or greater than
.IR rhs ,
in a byte-wise lexicographical comparison.
.SH NOTES
The byte-wise lexicographical comparison performed by these functions does not
take into account the encoding of the strings.
If the strings are UTF-8-encoded, the comparison will be equivalent to a
code-point-wise lexicographical comparison, but will not take into account
canonical equivalents if the strings are not normalized ahead of time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ss8_contains (3),
.BR ss8_ends_with (3),
.BR ss8_equals (3),
.BR ss8_starts_with (3),
.BR ssstr (7)
